Vlambeer Scale of Quality

1.  Basic Sound and Animation - Is it entertaining?
2.  Lower Enemy HP - Is 3 shots the magic number?
3.  Higher Rate of Fire - Increase frequency of core player actions.
4.  More Enemies - Parade (large groups) of enemies
5.  Bigger Bullets - Make bullets Mega Man “lemon” big.
6.  Muzzle Flash - Make the first frame of bullet sprites a white circle.
7.  Faster Bullets - Make Bullets 5 times faster than the player. Or make bullets move half the length of the screen in half a second.
8.  Less Accuracy - Random bullet spread
9.  Impact Effects - Animated “pop” when a bullet hits a wall or an enemy.
10. Hit Animation - Enemy flashes white when hit
11. Enemy Knockback - Enemy gets pushed back when shot
12. Permanence - Leave dead bodies on the ground. Have destructible environment.
13. Camera Lerp - Camera slightly lags behind the player movement
14. Camera Position - Position camera to highlight the focus of the game.
15. Screen Shake - Small shake of the screen when the gun fires
16. Player Knockback - Player is pushed backwards when firing forwards.
17. Sleep - A slight pause to the game state when hits connect with targets. (hit pause)
18. Gun Delay - Gun animates independently from player sprite/model.
19. Gun Kickback - Animation flourish.
20. Strafing - Rules that tie moving and shooting together (like stop-and-pop gameplay)
21. More Permanence - Leave bullet casings on the floor (find at least 3 examples)
22. More Bass - Gives the gun more kick. (audio design)
23. Super Machinegun - Have a machinegun (or a supercharged version of core mechanic)
24. Random Explosions - 33% chance that enemies explode on death hurting other enemies.
25. Faster Enemies - Compensate for random explosions to increase difficulty.
26. More Enemies - Compensate for increased fire power.
27. Higher Rate of Fire - Compensate for increased enemies.
28. Camera Kick - In addition to the shake, jerk the camera moves in the opposite direction of the fire.
29. Bigger Explosions - Because bigger is better
30. Even More Permanence - Smoke from the explosion lingers
31. Meaning - Have a purpose for the action













